## 1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?
 
 I am interested in programming because I have seen firsthand examples of how technology can directly impact and improve people’s lives. 

 A good friend of mine has spent the last couple years working as a software developer building predictive models to detect individuals at-risk for life-threatening disease. Two weeks after he told me about a pilot they were conducting on real patients to detect a heart arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation (a-fib), based on risk markers in medical data, my grandfather was rushed to a hospital in an ambulance with congestive heart failure and undiagnosed atrial fibrillation. The doctor in his rural community missed the a-fib diagnosis, despite some of his risk markers. I believe my friend's model, if applied, may have drawn greater attention to my grandfather as an at-risk patient in need of closer medical attention. Though I disclosed the story of my friend and his model to my grandfather in tears, I was invigorated by the idea that data and programming tools could have made a real impact in the life of a patient, in this case, my own grandfather.

 Not long after this incident, I was contacted by an entrepreneurial college friend who started a business to encourage the growth of vegetables in urban communities to help with children's lack of access to nutrient rich foods. He said their website, in its current state, failed to accurately articulate their mission and connect them to potential partners. Knowing nothing about web development and very little about digital marketing, I researched website templates, UX design, HTML and CSS, inspired by how I could contribute. This led me to Code Academy classes on using the terminal and HTML. I learned how HTML, CSS, and Javascript interact with each other, and all play a part in serving information to a user. While my programming experience is still incredibly limited, I see how being able to create and serve a well-designed website is vital to building a business and making an impact on a community by connecting users with the right information and resources. 

 
## 2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?

 I currently work in an Agile software development environment, though not as a software developer. I am a scrum master who supports Agile teams, but I have no technical knowledge of my own. I feel I am constantly in the dark about the product the team is working on, and I feel limited by the fact I am never creating something tangible of my own.  Instead, I am coordinating and organizing the work of others for a product that is primarily internally facing. 

 My goal is to be a woman in business who understands software development and technology and is empowered to design and build products that promote community health, wellness, and environmental sustainability. Being able to effectively use technology and programming tools is essential to communicating to and working with large audiences and ordinary people. Just as I would be able to help my entrepreneurial friend with this goal of reaching out to the community through his website, I would like to be able to apply both technology and business skills in a way that strengthens and empowers communities. 

 Beyond my career, I am also passionate about encouraging youth to be excited about technology. I worked in the center for developmental science at college and where I studied childhood development and interacted with kids who came into the lab. Looking back on my own childhood with an older brother, I was never encouraged in the same way to play with legos, dinosaur, or science experiments. I would make it my mission to encourage young girls or non-binary children in particular to be excited about technology and be an active, not passive, user. 

 
## 3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? 

 I will contribute to Ada’s inclusive community in two ways. The first is in leveraging what I have learned in an IT and business environment. Part of my job is to enhance teamwork and collaboration, and to point out what happens when communication and inclusivity fails. Through my experience I have directly confronted (and personally faced) biases in the workplace for women or non-gendered persons in IT. I have seen my peers discriminated against for their age, nationality, and perceived competence. After witnessing and speaking against this type of behavior, I am equipped to share my experiences with the Ada community to work toward inclusivity, collaboration, and solidarity. 

The second way I will contribute is through my background and personal confrontation of my own privilege. I was raised in a largely homogeneous suburb in Minnesota. My mom and dad came from rural farm communities and worked hard as a banker and police officer, respectively, to help my brother and I to attend a 4-year college. It was at a liberal arts, social justice oriented college where I first learned about implicit bias and its pervasiveness. Having conversations with my father about racial biases in the police force and police brutality opened my eyes to how difficult but necessary it is to be a voice against injustice for all those who are marginalized, and an advocate for more diverse communities and institutions. 

A few years removed from college, I see the pressing need for more diverse perspectives, particularly in business and IT where the key players tend to be highly educated, white men. At Ada, I will also provide a midwestern perspective with experience in rural communities in a largely west coast demographic. Lastly, I have a strong desire and willingness to immerse myself back into a culture that pushes me to recognize and act on injustices, while connecting with people whose backgrounds and experiences are different from my own. 

## 4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?

My freshman year of college, I dropped the pursuit of a Spanish minor after facing, what I thought at the time, was serious adversity. Through a combination of receiving little concrete feedback from the professor, and me not actively seeking help throughout the course of the semester, I concluded the course with a grade I deemed unfavorable. This ultimately led me to drop the minor altogether. Throughout the rest of my college experience, I was ashamed at my choice to give up so easily. It wasn’t until my senior year that I achieved redemption. I signed up for a Spanish-intensive j-term after not taking the language for 3+ years. I would be immersed in a spanish speaking community for 3 weeks speaking nothing but spanish. I struggled tremendously at first, using a dictionary to name household items. By the end, I was speaking full sentences in Spanish (albeit, broken Spanish) and made a lasting connection with a host mom that I still keep in contact with today (thanks, Facebook). From this experience, I learned to never let “perfection” get in the way of learning, growing, and connecting with others. If I were to encounter this situation today, firstly I would be equipped to reach out to others for help when struggling. Secondly, I would not give up. I know coding is not going to be easy. In fact, it’s going to be really, really hard. However, I will not let any idea of perfection get in the way of producing something meaningful and connecting with others around me. 

